README.md, before:

## Aperte

![Aperte Logo](docs/img/aperte_logo_small.png)

**Aperte** is a lightweight data platform for membership-based communities.
It is slightly opinionated for volunteer-powered [SME](http://www.sme.org/)
chapters and communities, but it is customizable and can be adapted to various
other use cases.

### Motivation

Feedback and openness are essential ingredients for successful and engaging chapters.
Without these traits, members feel disconnected from the chapter leadership and
might resist participation in a chapter where they feel they have no voice
or clarity - understandably so.

The Internet is a powerful platform for collaboration and openness. Aperte is
an effort to provide a relatively convenient method for SME chapters to deploy an
open data platform for the benefit of membership and leaders alike.

### For Users.

TODO.

### For Developers.

#### Contributor Guidelines

Thank you for your consideration! Please review the project [Contributor Guidelines](.github/contributing.md).

#### Minimum Requirements

To work on this codebase, there are some minimum requirements that must be
available on your development machine.

- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/). Please note that Python 2.x is not supported.
- [Fabric3](https://pypi.org/project/Fabric3/) via `pip install Fabric3`. Ensure that Fabric**3** is installed here (with the 3 suffix). Fabric (without the suffix) will not work.
- [PyInquirer](https://pypi.org/project/PyInquirer/) via `pip install PyInquirer`.
- [Jinja2](https://pypi.org/project/Jinja2/) via `pip install Jinja2`.
- [Docker CE](https://www.docker.com/community-edition).
- [Node.js version 8.0 or greater](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)

#### Fabric Commands

This codebase uses [Fabric](https://www.fabfile.org/) to manage the dependency
setup, project build process and Docker management.

| Command                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `fab init_dev`           | **For a fresh clone, this command should be run first.** Set up the local machine development environment. An interactive wizard will ask some questions to set some environment variables that will be used during runtime. |
| `fab docker_setup`       | Run the interactive wizard again to set/change the environment variables used by a particular Docker environment.                                                                                                            |
| `fab docker_up:env=dev`  | Build and run the 'Local Docker Development' stack. Web application will be available at [http://www.lvh.me:8000](http://www.lvh.me:8000).                                                                                   |
| `fab docker_up:env=test` | Build and run the 'Local Docker Testing' stack. Test results will appear in the Terminal or Command Line.                                                                                                                    |
| `fab docker_destroy`     | Stop the Docker stack, remove all containers and images created for the 'Local Docker' stack.                                                                                                                                |
| `fab deploy_setup`       | Run an interactive wizard to set/change the environment variables used by a particular GAE deployment.                                                                                                                       |
| `fab deploy:env=staging` | Deploy web application to Google App Engine staging target.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `fab deploy:env=prod`    | Deploy web application to Google App Engine production target.                                                                                                                                                               |

#### Runtime Environments

This project supports a variety of runtime environments - both locally and in
the Cloud.

For local development/test environments, Docker is utilized so that any
development and testing is performed in a reproducible environment on different
machines.

The Docker images that are built closely resemble the Google App Engine
deployment target.

For cloud staging/production environments, the Aperte deployment scripts support
the [Google App Engine Standard Environment](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/standard/python3/)
out of the box.

That said, the codebase is Cloud-agnostic so there is nothing to prevent it from
running on other Cloud providers.

| Name                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Local Docker Development    | Runs Django in Debug mode, start a local HTTP server and automatically refresh the web application after each source change.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Local Docker Testing        | Runs the full set of integration and unit tests for the front and back ends.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| GAE Staging                 | Runs on a Google App Engine environment (that is separate from Production) for QA using Django staging settings and actual Google Cloud Platform resources (i.e. Cloud SQL). This environment includes an authorization layer to protect the web application from the public or search engine crawlers. |
| GAE Production              | For actual customer/member traffic.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Continuous Integration (CI) | For [Circle CI](https://circleci.com/) automated integration testing at commit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

### Community Participation Guidelines

The SME Virtual Network is committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming
environment for all. Please take a moment to read our
[Community Participation Guidelines](https://github.com/smevirtual/community-guidelines/blob/master/README.md).

### License

All of the code in this repository is licensed under the
[Apache 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/). A copy of this license
is included in the root of this repository.

At times, there might be other source code incorporated into Aperte which carry
different open-source licenses, where those instances occur, notations will be
made in the headers of effected source files and/or the original source code
licenses will be included in close proximity to these files.

Commit message:

docs: add description of Aperte core features to README

README.md, after:

## Aperte

![Aperte Logo](docs/img/aperte_logo_small.png)

**Aperte** is a lightweight data platform for membership-based communities.
It is slightly opinionated for volunteer-powered [SME](http://www.sme.org/)
chapters and communities, but it is customizable and can be adapted to various
other use cases.

Aperte consists of the following high-level core features:

- Event management - including scheduling, registrations and payments.
- Member and non-member feedback handling.
- Data dashboards for chapter performance and finances.
- Centralized social media integration and management.
- First-class integration with [Discord](https://discordapp.com/) and [Discourse](https://www.discourse.org/).

### Motivation

Feedback and openness are essential ingredients for successful and engaging chapters.
Without these traits, members feel disconnected from the chapter leadership and
might resist participation in a chapter where they feel they have no voice
or clarity - understandably so.

The Internet is a powerful platform for collaboration and openness. Aperte is
an effort to provide a relatively convenient method for SME chapters to deploy an
open data platform for the benefit of membership and leaders alike.

### For Users.

TODO.

### For Developers.

#### Contributor Guidelines

Thank you for your consideration! Please review the project [Contributor Guidelines](.github/contributing.md).

#### Minimum Requirements

To work on this codebase, there are some minimum requirements that must be
available on your development machine.

- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/). Please note that Python 2.x is not supported.
- [Fabric3](https://pypi.org/project/Fabric3/) via `pip install Fabric3`. Ensure that Fabric**3** is installed here (with the 3 suffix). Fabric (without the suffix) will not work.
- [PyInquirer](https://pypi.org/project/PyInquirer/) via `pip install PyInquirer`.
- [Jinja2](https://pypi.org/project/Jinja2/) via `pip install Jinja2`.
- [Docker CE](https://www.docker.com/community-edition).
- [Node.js version 8.0 or greater](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)

#### Fabric Commands

This codebase uses [Fabric](https://www.fabfile.org/) to manage the dependency
setup, project build process and Docker management.

| Command                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `fab init_dev`           | **For a fresh clone, this command should be run first.** Set up the local machine development environment. An interactive wizard will ask some questions to set some environment variables that will be used during runtime. |
| `fab docker_setup`       | Run the interactive wizard again to set/change the environment variables used by a particular Docker environment.                                                                                                            |
| `fab docker_up:env=dev`  | Build and run the 'Local Docker Development' stack. Web application will be available at [http://www.lvh.me:8000](http://www.lvh.me:8000).                                                                                   |
| `fab docker_up:env=test` | Build and run the 'Local Docker Testing' stack. Test results will appear in the Terminal or Command Line.                                                                                                                    |
| `fab docker_destroy`     | Stop the Docker stack, remove all containers and images created for the 'Local Docker' stack.                                                                                                                                |
| `fab deploy_setup`       | Run an interactive wizard to set/change the environment variables used by a particular GAE deployment.                                                                                                                       |
| `fab deploy:env=staging` | Deploy web application to Google App Engine staging target.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `fab deploy:env=prod`    | Deploy web application to Google App Engine production target.                                                                                                                                                               |

#### Runtime Environments

This project supports a variety of runtime environments - both locally and in
the Cloud.

For local development/test environments, Docker is utilized so that any
development and testing is performed in a reproducible environment on different
machines.

The Docker images that are built closely resemble the Google App Engine
deployment target.

For cloud staging/production environments, the Aperte deployment scripts support
the [Google App Engine Standard Environment](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/standard/python3/)
out of the box.

That said, the codebase is Cloud-agnostic so there is nothing to prevent it from
running on other Cloud providers.

| Name                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Local Docker Development    | Runs Django in Debug mode, start a local HTTP server and automatically refresh the web application after each source change.                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Local Docker Testing        | Runs the full set of integration and unit tests for the front and back ends.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| GAE Staging                 | Runs on a Google App Engine environment (that is separate from Production) for QA using Django staging settings and actual Google Cloud Platform resources (i.e. Cloud SQL). This environment includes an authorization layer to protect the web application from the public or search engine crawlers. |
| GAE Production              | For actual customer/member traffic.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Continuous Integration (CI) | For [Circle CI](https://circleci.com/) automated integration testing at commit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

### Community Participation Guidelines

The SME Virtual Network is committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming
environment for all. Please take a moment to read our
[Community Participation Guidelines](https://github.com/smevirtual/community-guidelines/blob/master/README.md).

### License

All of the code in this repository is licensed under the
[Apache 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/). A copy of this license
is included in the root of this repository.

At times, there might be other source code incorporated into Aperte which carry
different open-source licenses, where those instances occur, notations will be
made in the headers of effected source files and/or the original source code
licenses will be included in close proximity to these files.
